Hi again. You'll now
learn how to compute
the probabilities for
your transition and
emission matrices.
Given a corpus, you'll be
able to populate
these two matrices.
Let me show you how
you can do this.
Let's start with how to
populate the transition matrix,
which holds all the
transition probabilities
between states of
your Markov model.
First, let's explore how to
calculate the transition
probabilities
on a conceptual level using
this very small training
corpus as you can see.
The associated parts of
speech tags are depicted
by the background color.
To calculate the
transition probabilities,
you actually only
use the parts of
speech tags from your
training corpus,
so to calculate the probability
of the blue parts of speech tag,
transitioning to the purple one,
you first have to count
the occurrences of
that tag combination in
your corpus, which is two.
The number of all tag
pairs starting with
a blue tag is three for
this corpus at least.
Two out of three
tag sequences in
your training corpus starts
with the blue parts
of speech tag.
In other words, the
transition probability for
a blue tag following a purple
one is two out of three.
More formally, in
order to calculate
all the transition probabilities
of your Markov model,
you'd first have to count
all occurrences of tag pairs
in your training corpus.
I'll define this as
the function C of
the tags t_i minus
1 comma t_i which
returns the counts
for the tag t_i minus
1 followed by the tag t_i
in your training corpus.
Next, you calculate
the probability
of a tag t_i following
another tag,
t_i minus 1 as P of
t_i given t_i minus 1.
This counts of t_i minus 1
comma t_i in the numerator,
which is the number
of occurrences of
t_i minus 1 comma t_i in
the corpus divided by the sum of
all occurrences of the
tag t_i minus one,
together with all
the other tags t_j.
This will become more clear
in the following slides.
I'll write this as P for
the probability of t_i
given t_i minus 1.
This probability is given by
the total number of times
tag t_i occurred after
tag t_i minus 1,
which is given by the
function counts of
t_i comma t_i minus
1 in the numerator,
and then divide it
by the number of
total occurrences of
the tag t_i minus 1,
given by the function counts of
t_i minus 1 and the divisor.
Say you want to train
a model for haiku,
a type of shorts
Japanese poetry.
Your training corpus will
be the following haiku
from Ezra Pound written in 1913.
In the programming assignments,
you'll be given a
prepared corpus.
Here, you'll make some
changes to the corpus
in order to calculate the
correct probabilities.
Consider each line of the
corpus as a separate sentence.
First, at the start token to
each line or sentence
in order to be
able to calculate the
initial probabilities
using the previous
defined formula.
Then transform all
words in the corpus to
lowercase so the model
becomes case insensitive.
The punctuation you
should leave intact
because it doesn't make a
difference for a toy model,
and there aren't tags for
different kinds of
punctuation included here.
There you have it and
nicely prepared corpus.
You learned how to calculate
the probability of
a tag showing up
after another tag.
You saw how you can
get the counts,
and then you can use
those counts and
transform them into
probabilities.
This is useful
because it allows you
to populate your
transition matrix.
This is what you'll
be learning next.